Updates for new relationship argument (#1331)
hadley/r4ds: joins.qmd

knitr::include_graphics("diagrams/join/setup2.png", dpi = 270)
```

To describe a specific type of join, we indicate matches with dots.

> The matches determines the rows in output, a new data frame that contains the key, the x values, and the y values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The matches determine the rows in the output, a new data frame that contains the key, the x values, and the y values.
```

> For example, @fig-join-inner shows an inner join, where two rows match if and only if the keys are equal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, @fig-join-inner shows an inner join, where rows are retained if and only if the keys are equal.
```

knitr::include_graphics("diagrams/join/inner.png", dpi = 270)
```

> We can apply the same principles to explain the **outer joins**, which keep observations that appear in at least one of the data frames.

Reviewer: I don't know if this is valuable, but I've enjoyed thinking of outer joins as performing _exactly_ the same matching procedure as an inner join - the only difference is in how they handle _unmatched_ rows on either side of the join.

i.e. the base of an outer join is an inner join, patched up with some of the unmatched rows

Reviewer: I guess this is different from how you talk about it though, because you say that there is a catch-all virtual row that matches against "anything" that isn't already handled. So that takes the place of talking about handling _unmatched_ rows, because in your explanation there aren't any anymore (because the catch all handled them already)

Reviewer 2: I would keep the description as is but remind by appending ", unlike an inner join that keeps observations that appear in both tables."

-   `unmatched` controls what happens when a row in `x` fails to match any rows in `y`. It defaults to `"drop"` which will silently drop any unmatched rows.
-   `multiple` controls what happens when a row in `x` matches more than one row in `y`. For equi-joins, it defaults to `"warn"` which emits a warning message if any rows have multiple matches.

There are two common cases in which you might want to override these defaults: enforcing a one-to-one mapping or deliberately allowing the rows to increase.

### One-to-one mapping

Both `unmatched` and `multiple` can take value `"error"` which means that the join will fail unless each row in `x` matches exactly one row in `y`:
While the first row in `df1` only matches one row in `df2`, the second and third rows both match two rows.
This is sometimes called a `many-to-many` join, and will cause dplyr to emit a warning:

```{r}
#| error: true
df1 <- tibble(x = 1)
df2 <- tibble(x = c(1, 1))
df3 <- tibble(x = 3)

df1 |> 
  inner_join(df2, join_by(x), unmatched = "error", multiple = "error")
df1 |> 
  inner_join(df3, join_by(x), unmatched = "error", multiple = "error")
```

> Note that `unmatched = "error"` is not useful with `left_join()` because, as described above, every row in `x` has a fallback match to a virtual row in `y`.

Reviewer: Not exactly true anyways, for `left_join()` it will error if a row in `y` was about to be dropped

It isn't useful for `full_join()` (all rows are always kept), so it isn't an argument to that join function.
